# scTeam
scTeam: A powerful AI- based Pipeline for Automated Single-Cell RNA-seq Analysis and Intratissue Microbial Profiling
  Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) offers a powerful tool for exploring biology and gaining a deeper understanding of health and disease at the single-cell level. However, its analysis remains vastly time-consuming and experience dependent. We developed scTeam, an artificial intelligence (AI)-powered pipeline designed to automate the scRNA-seq data analysis. scTeam provided standard scRNA-seq analyses, including quality control, cell and gene filtering, normalization, identification of highly variable genes, dimension reduction, clustering, cell type annotation, marker gene detection, and differential expression analysis. It also supports advanced analyses, including transcription factor activity, cellular functions, cell–cell communication, and pseudotime analysis. Importantly, empowered by AI, scTeam automatically performs cluster automatically performs clustering resolution optimization, AI-assisted cell-type annotations, and integrated microbiome profiling with single-cell resolution, achieving over 90% annotation accuracy compared to manually fine-tuned annotations. Based on a pre-trained AI model, scTeam efficiently removes potential contamination and enhances identification of low-abundant microbes, enabling intratissue/intratumor microbiota profiling at both pseudo-bulk and single-cell levels. Moreover, distributed as a Docker image with enhanced reproducibility, scTeam allows large-scale and accurate scRNA-seq analysis

The Docker image is hosted at: https://huggingface.co/shuaigeWENHAO/scteam

First, in the folder where the data are stored, we create the configuration file and the list file as required(scoptions.cfg and scsamplelist.txt).

